[THEME MUSIC]
>>Welcome back.
This is episode five of the
Ubuntu Contributionism Workshop
where we continue our journey
of discovery looking back
at the origins of money,
the banking system,
how money works, and the
financial world around us
has enslaved us.
And we look at ancient
civilizations and the wisdom
that we can learn from
the ancient cultures,
and how we can put
it into practice
today in this crazy life
that we find ourselves in,
and how we can learn
from this ancient wisdom
and really benefit
all of humanity
with this ancient knowledge.
And this is what
this is all about.
So the first four
episodes were really
about laying the foundation
of where the money comes from,
the origins of money, how the
banking families came to be,
how the world
financial systems work,
who's really in control
of the government,
and all this information
that is often hidden
and obscured from sight.
And today, we start
with the good news.
So we've gone through
the foundation building
and the revision, which,
as we already discovered,
it could be quite
depressing and dark.
But just, again,
to remind us, let's
see it as important
knowledge and information,
the platform that we first have
to know upon which we can then
build a bright and
prosperous future for us all.
From now on, it's really
about the good news,
the plan of action,
and start sharing
this the philosophy of
Ubuntu and Contributionism,
that we can really
see how simple it
is to free ourselves
from this enslavement
that we find ourselves in.
So where we ended
our previous episode
was talking about
the fact that we
have to remove the
money from the system.
As long as we have money,
it'll continue enslaving us.
Somebody'll always
find a way to use money
as a tool of enslavement,
to benefit themselves,
and the hierarchical
corporate structural
will continue being
enforced on us.
The moment we remove money from
the system, all that changes.
And it is virtually impossible
to keep control of a people
unless you have money.
So without a money system,
everything falls flat.
And we start looking at a
whole new paradigm shift,
and embracing all whole
new way of interacting,
living, and working together
towards a benefit of everyone.
Cooperating, collaborating,
and no longer competing.
The moment you say
to people, we're
going to remove money
from the system,
some people really freak out.
You know, they can't
handle that kind
of-- even the thought
of that starts
to affect them physically.
Immediately, you start
getting bombarded
with what have become my
favorite 13 frequently asked
questions.
And this is over
an 11-year period
now that these same
questions keep popping up.
What I find fascinating is that
in a world where we are faced
with millions of
problems every day--
how many problems do we
have in the United States?
How many problems do
we have in England
and Germany and the
whole world collectively?
Just the problems never
end piling up, right?
And it's always--
it's very difficult
to solve the problems, right?
We've already gone through that.
We're always told that
it's very difficult.
It's not easy to
solve the problems.
Well, that's all
nonsense, right?
We know that to solve the
problems is really very easy.
It's the money that makes
it difficult to solve it.
So always the hurdle to solving
the problem becomes the money.
There's never enough money
to solve the problems.
But what I find fascinating
is that in a world where
we are faced with
millions of problems,
with money, the moment
you remove money
in an 11-year period,
there are just
a few dozen questions
and problems or hurdles
that people find.
And they keep worrying
about the same things.
So it shows is that when you
remove money from the system,
we only need to solve
arguably 13 problems to live
in paradise, where in
a world with money,
we have to solve
millions of problems.
So just philosophically,
that already presents us
with a very eloquent
pointer towards the fact
that if you remove money, things
just automatically improve.
And this is quite a
liberating thought,
just to start today off with.
So you see some
of the questions.
You know, one of the
most popular ones
is, who's going to
shovel the crap?
Because in a world
of money, those
are the jobs that
are always given
to the low-paid people, the
immigrants and the people,
the great unwashed that we
don't want in our societies.
But we use them and
abuse them because they
do the jobs that we
don't want to do,
because they're lowly paid jobs.
And that's what we
associate these kind of jobs
with, and positions that
people take in our society.
And if you just go through
these questions right now,
I'll just sit on my
ass and do nothing.
If everything is for free, I'll
just sit back and do nothing,
and people will bring me stuff.
No.
That's not what's
going to happen.
It's not called sit on
your ass and do nothing.
It's called Contributionism.
You have to contribute towards
the benefit of your community.
And in return, you have
access to everything
that the community
produces and develops
and invents and creates.
And if everything
is free, I want
50 Ferraris and 20 mansions.
So just notice where
these questions come from.
They all come from a position
of fear, ego, hierarchy, money,
position in society, all
this kind of mental--
these mental blocks
that we have.
How are we going to pay for
things if we've got no money?
One of the things
when you say people,
we're going to remove money
from the system, a lot of people
go into shock.
We're not saying we're going to
prevent you from buying stuff,
we're going to take
your money away
so you've got no money
to go out and but stuff.
We're saying, we're going
to change the system
so you don't need money.
But when you say to people
you're going to remove money
from society, they automatically
equate that with poverty,
not having enough.
So that's not what
we're talking about.
How are we going to buy stuff?
So I'm just laying a
little foundation for you
to start thinking or
going, taking your thoughts
in the right direction to be
able to answer these questions.
Because each and
every one of these
questions comes from a
capitalist perspective,
the system that
we're in right now.
It doesn't come from
thinking about it
from the different paradigm.
And that's where
the problem lies,
each and every one of them.
And it continues.
Are we going back
to the dark ages?
I don't think so.
We're releasing our
inventors and scientists
to create infinitely.
So we certainly aren't
going back to the dark ages.
Is it a lawless society?
Who makes the laws?
I used to joke about
it and say, I do.
But people often
don't get that, so--
[LAUGHTER]
I've stopped saying that.
So who makes the laws?
Well, we're going to
have new laws, right?
Our communities are
going to make the laws
for their own communities.
Why should I do
something I don't like?
Well, today you're doing
something that you don't like.
And today you work
like a slave just
so you can buy food and
bread and milk and pay
for electricity and put your
children through school.
You think that doing three
hours a week for something
is too much?
So again, people completely
misunderstand when you first
throw this at people.
We're going to take
money out of the system
and create abundance.
It's, well, how can you create
abundance with no money?
You know?
And that's the undoing,
the unlearning,
the unschooling that
we have to go through,
reprogramming the way we
think about everything.
And remember, just
remind yourself,
money has affected
and infiltrated
every crack and crevice of
our existence, of our reality.
It affects everything.
This morning, again, as
I was leaving the hotel,
I turned on the TV.
Just-- I wanted to see what
the local channel looked like.
And there they come with
their economic report.
And just every day, no
matter where you turn,
they shove this money
thing in our faces.
And 99% of the global
population or more
don't even understand
what they're telling us.
The economic report, the
stock markets, or this
is up and that, and
NASDAQ and Dow Jones,
and what are you talking about?
And these numbers and
arrows going up and down.
And people look at
this day in, day out.
They see it all
around us everywhere.
And because it's
shoved in our face,
we all think this is
really important stuff.
You know, the people
that put this together
are very, very smart.
And those are the lies, once
again, that we are told.
This is very complicated stuff.
Only a few people
really understand this.
No, it's all bogus,
Ponzi scheme crap
that's being shoved
down our throats to make
us believe that it's important.
And this is how we're
going to see it.
Those are the lies
and the traps.
And it's everywhere around
us, no matter where you go.
Why should I do
something I don't like?
So already, remember, we're
creating a society where
you can follow your dreams,
live out the perfect life
that you've always
seen for yourself.
You're not going to do
something you don't like.
You choose a
community you live in.
You participate in a
Human nature is to be lazy.
I mean, I love that one.
Really?
Is that what you
think of humanity?
Human nature is to be lazy?
No.
Laziness, the way
we perceive it,
is a consequence of capitalism.
And people doing stinking
jobs that they hate,
they have to get up at 4 o'clock
in the morning to catch a bus
or ride a bicycle in
the rain or in the cold,
go to a stinking job
that they despise,
but they have to do it
because it's the only means
that they can keep
their family alive,
this is why people get lazy,
and why you call somebody lazy.
And eventually, some
people just rebel.
They say, I'm not
doing this anymore.
And then suddenly, oh,
it's terrible, you know?
Become a respectable
member of society.
Get a job.
Really?
That makes you respectable
because you've got a job?
And this is how we constantly
torture ourselves and torture
our children and
torture our friends.
Because we look at our
friends as mirrors.
And if our friends don't
agree with what we're doing,
that's probably the worst
thing that can happen to us.
In fact, what I find
is that often, people
don't like to talk about
this subject or a world
without money or this
whole new paradigm
is because they're worried
about what their friends might
think about them.
It's not about their
own perspective
or what I believe in.
It's, what are my friends going
to say if I say these things?
And then they just keep quiet.
They don't actually say this,
because they're too scared.
So once again, the fear of
what'll happen outside of you
takes over, and it starts
to control your life.
But we know better
now, don't we?
I want to say--
Let me go back to,
who's going to shovel the crap?
Let's do that one quickly.
Has anybody got an answer?
>>Hi, I'm Patrick.
And I'd be more than happy
to fulfill number one.
Somebody's got to do it, and
if you learn how to do it well,
other people will get
involved, and they'll
share in the effort.
Especially if it's only
three hours a week.
>>Thank you, Patrick.
I'm so glad you said this,
because this is what I find.
Wherever I do the
Ubuntu workshops,
there's always somebody,
or at least one person,
more often more than one
person who puts up their hand
and says, I'll do it.
It just shows you
the human spirit.
People aren't scared of
doing the so-called menial
or dirty jobs.
It's not really a dirty job.
It's what capitalism
has reduced it to be.
You know, we all
go to the toilet.
We all create waste.
Animals create waste.
There's mess everywhere.
We've got to clean the
mess up behind ourselves.
We can't expect others to clean
up behind us all the time.
So it's just taking
responsibility back
onto ourselves, and
becoming respectable members
of our own community and
society and say, well, we all
have to clean up the mess.
But there's another solution to
the problem as well, you know?
It's like, remember,
there are as many talents
as there are people
in the world.
There are as many passions as
there are people in the world.
Each and every one of
us is completely unique.
And every one of us has
more than one talent.
We have multi-talented people.
Many of us are multi-talented.
And there are as many
crazy chemical engineers
and scientists out there as
they are budding Michelangelos,
right?
So for every crazy artist who
wants to create the next "Mona
Lisa" or sculpture
of the "David,"
they are crazy scientists
and chemical engineers
who want to solve
the sewage problem,
and will find ways of
solving that in a way that
is eloquent, easy,
clean, and actually
good for your community.
So by the time the sewage
comes out of your home
or out of a building
or anywhere else,
it not only beautifies
your environment,
it probably produces energy
and helps your garden grow,
and will do things that we can't
imagine today because today,
it's not financially
viable to do that.
See, most of the technology
that we should be using,
or the advancement that
we should have today
is not financially viable.
Isn't that amazing?
Bankers have become the
decision makers that
allow us to do things or not.
If you think about it, if
you want to start a bakery,
you'll go to the
bank for a loan,
and they say, well,
Michael, we've
heard about your baking skills.
Apparently you're the
best baker in town.
It's amazing.
But you know, we've
looked at the model,
and unfortunately,
your business model
doesn't make financial
sense, so we can't give you
a loan to start your bakery.
Really?
Is this the kind of world we
want to live in, where bankers
decide what we're going to
do and can and cannot do?
No.
This is why we
have to change it.
It cannot continue like this.
I want to go back to 20
Ferraris and 50 mansions
because that's one that always
puts a smile on people's faces.
So right-- really?
And so in which of those 20
mansions do you want to live?
Remember, because you don't
need money, everything is free,
everything is available
to you, and you have
a home you choose to live in.
So the only reason people
have more than one home today
is because it's actually
their security blanket.
It's a value.
They buy it as an investment.
So if they hit Skid Row,
if they lose everything,
at least they've got a home.
And one of them, they
can sell one of them
and then they can survive
having enough money.
That's often a reason why
people have more than one home,
or they just have
too much money,
and they just keep buying stuff
because it's all they know.
But if you live in an Ubuntu
Contributionism society,
you can live and choose
to live wherever you want.
And our homes will look
very different to the way
they look today.
We'll use different materials.
We'll talk about that as well.
What kind of materials are we
going to use around us, right?
To buy a home, it's just a
statement of greed and ego
to have more than one home.
Because if you don't want to
live in this town or village
anymore, you say, look.
I'm going to go and
live over there.
And you go to another town, and
they welcome you with open arms
because you're going to come
and join their community
and contribute to that
community with your own talents
and skills, and contribute
towards the community projects
that they already have going.
The 50 Ferraris is a great one.
Why do people want to-- you
want to drive a Ferrari?
Really?
So let me just get this right.
So you want to drive a Ferrari
that you have to put petrol in?
You're going to want to go
fill up at a gas station,
pay money to put
petrol in your Ferrari
while all your friends
are driving around,
floating around with
levitation vehicles for free?
You really want to do that?
That's where we're going, right?
So why would you
want 50 Ferraris
when everyone is moving with
advancement and technology
because it's all for
free and available,
because that's what
our scientists do?
And they make it available to
all of us in our community.
So I'm not saying Ferraris
will go out the window.
But what I'm saying is
that Ferraris are probably
going to become like a
collectible, crazy curiosity
from the past.
Wow, can you believe that people
used to drive those things?
And they had to put
this thing called
petrol in that made it go?
It had this weird
thing called an engine
that was like really ancient
steam train technology?
You know, combustion engine?
Because in essence,
that's what it is.
All our cars today still run
on steam train technology.
This is not well liked by
Formula One enthusiasts
because they think that
this is really advanced
technology in those cars.
No, it's steam train technology.
You have a little explosion
that creates pressure and makes
the pistons move, and
it makes the car go.
It's like, wow.
And they disguise it
in all kinds of ways.
So we are still stuck
150 years in the past
with a so-called advanced
technology we use today.
That's how they pull
the wool over our eyes.
So you're not going
to want a Ferrari.
You're going to
want to participate
in the explosion of technology.
But if you want a
Ferrari, you can have one.
Except, where are you
going to drive it?
Because we're not
going to have roads.
So we're going to probably
have to keep some of the roads
so that people can drive
their Ferraris in future.
[LAUGH]
In fact, that brings
another problem.
What are we going to
do with all the roads?
Millions and millions of
miles of tar and concrete
that have destroyed our planet.
What are we going to
do with all the roads?
We're going to have to find
a creative solution for that.
Now there is a great creative
challenge for the scientists
to come up with.
Let's figure out what we're
going to do with all the roads.
And then all the high-rise
buildings in the cities.
What are we going
to do with those?
Because we're not
going to have offices.
You're not going
to go to an office.
You're going to live where you
participate in your community.
So no s has an office.
There might be a laboratory
if you're a scientist,
or there might be a dairy
if you make cheese or milk
or whatever, but no offices.
You're going to have a studio
where you design stuff,
but that's not an office,
a high-rise building.
So we've got some interesting
creative challenges
when we start breaking
down the capitalist system.
And I think people
are going to come up
with phenomenal
ideas for what to do
with these skyscrapers and
the high-density city areas
and the tar roads and the
roads all over the world.
And then finally, human
nature is to be lazy.
I mean, how dare anyone
make such a statement
when it is obviously
just a reflection
of the capitalist system?
When people are rebelling
against being forced
into doing disgusting
jobs that they get
paid just a slave
labor salary just
to keep them alive
from month to month,
and then repeat that same
insanity over and over again.
And this is our life, right?
These are our lives.
I've been saying for a long time
now that the best description
of human nature, or the
best way we can probably
define human nature
is to be creative,
to create, to co-create,
to give expression
of what we are ourselves.
We are part of the
great creation.
And that's really
all we want to do,
is to create, from the
earliest of time as babies.
We blow bubbles, we make noises,
we make signs with our hands.
We sing, we draw, we
make sand castles.
We just want to create.
And then that gets beaten out
of us when we go to school.
No, you can't do that anymore.
Now you've got to get
serious about life.
How are you going to earn money?
And everything changes, right?
So human nature
is not to be lazy.
Human nature is to be creative.
And this Ubuntu
Contributionism system
provides the absolute
fertile platform and ground
for everyone to give expression
to all their creative talents
and abilities, no
matter what they may be.
And whatever it
is, it'll always be
supported by the community
you find yourself in.
Where the tools, the components,
whatever it is you need
will always be provided
for, because all those are
part of the community project
that looks after itself.
And these frequently
asked questions continue.
I'm not going to
bore you with it.
But why should I give up all the
things I've worked so hard for?
You see, it's always
from a position of fear
or a hierarchical structure.
You'll see, when you start
reading these questions now,
they become so silly, and we
can see right through them
instantly.
Why should I give you
something if you have nothing
to give me in return?
Again, it's like that
kind of mentality.
Well, you don't have to
give me anything in return,
because what I do
for my community is
available to everyone
all the time.
That's how it works.
You don't have to give
me anything in return.
I'll give you
something of value.
What am I going
to get in return?
Is this just a
form of communism?
This is often what people say.
It's just another
form of communism.
And the answer to
that is, no, it's not.
Communism fell desperately.
It turned out to be a
fascist dictatorship that
was driven by money.
So that's what communism was.
It may have been a noble
idea in its original form,
but it was hijacked, and
that's what it became.
So we've got to call
communism what it became,
not what the ideal
philosophy was.
This works without money.
This is the only
system in the world
that we propose that
works without money.
Yank the money out of it and
turn our place into paradise.
What about human
nature, or the fact
that people want to
continually better themselves?
That's an interesting one.
Well, you'll have the
platform and the opportunity
to infinitely better
yourself, because you'll
have everything you've ever
needed to better yourself.
And what about progress and
advancement and technology?
Does this mean we're going
to regress and go backwards?
I don't think so.
We're going to the stars.
We're bringing up our
scientists to create and invent
infinitely, giving them the
laboratories and research
facilities that they
need to continue
inventing and creating,
and then sharing all that
with all of us.
So we certainly are
not going backwards.
Right now, money doesn't allow
us to create a laboratory
to invent things.
And inventors that have
given us cures for disease
and free energy devices and
so forth, they get shot down
or they get killed or
threatened or bought out.
Their inventions are taken
in, they're patented,
their patents get bought
up, and they get shelved,
never to be released because
it's not good for business
to cure disease.
All right?
Once everyone is cured, who
are we going to sell drugs to?
And it goes on.
If there's no money, how
are we going to get things?
Why would I want to slave
away all day for free?
Again, can you see?
It's like they compute
working with not getting money
in return.
And it's just amazing.
And see how quickly you
see through the insanity.
Just answer a few
of these questions,
and suddenly, the
rest come so easily.
So this took me several years
to figure out in the beginning.
Today, it takes a few
minutes to figure it out.
And it's all part of the
collective consciousness,
because we've all
grown consciously.
It's a lot easier for
people to embrace this today
than it was in 2005.
How are we going
to get electricity?
Well, we've spoken
about it already.
Free electricity devices have
been discovered many times,
and the inventors
have always either
been silenced or killed
or threatened or tortured
or whatever.
So is this not a case
of taking from the rich
and giving to the poor?
No.
There are no rich and no poor.
Everyone has
everything you need.
So none of that Robin Hood
kind of mentality, right?
And why don't we rather focus
on improving the economy
and alleviate poverty so that
everyone has sufficient access
to food and other things?
Again, yeah.
Alleviate poverty.
And these are real
questions, so I'm
sharing real questions
that I've received
from people all over the world.
And it just shows you
how equally poisoned
we have become.
Alleviate poverty.
Well, poverty is a consequence
of not having money.
So we're getting rid of
money, so nobody is poor.
Everybody has
everything they need.
And it just keeps
coming back to that.
It always comes back to that.
Finally, does this not mean the
degradation of our lifestyle?
No.
It means an infinite
improvement of our lifestyle,
and everything you've
ever dreamt of.
Is this not a free
for all and a lawless
society where everyone
can do what they want?
No.
It's far more
controlled, in a way,
because everyone takes
responsibility for themselves.
It's about high consciousness.
It's about people
feeling respected
by their own community because
they feel that they're actually
contributing something that
other people respect and love
them for.
Not because they're
doing some menial job
and they're the unseen people
in the society, as so many of us
are.
If everything is for free,
can I go to your house
and take whatever I want?
[LAUGHTER]
I know.
This is a real question.
It's like, really?
So let me just get this right.
Why would you want to do that?
If you live in this
society, everything
you have is tailor-made for you.
The table and
chairs in your house
are made for you by the
carpenters in your town.
I don't want your
tables and chairs,
because I've got my own,
made specifically for me.
So why would you
want to come and take
my stuff that's imbued with my
energy and the way I like it?
Again, it is a capitalistic
kind of knee-jerk response.
I'll just come to your
house and take what I want.
So that's the other
very important thing.
Remember, in this world
where our community projects
are driven by the
people in our community
and their creative talents
and abilities, everything
we have is going to
be tailor-made for us,
from our shoes to our
clothes to our homes,
the way they're
designed and built,
to the furniture in your
house, to possibly the cars
or vehicles that we
travel in, whatever
that technology may be.
Because we can, and
we choose to do so.
And that is a huge
paradigm shift.
Today to get tailor-made shoes,
they'd cost you a fortune.
We can't afford tailor-made
shoes today, right?
Or go to a tailor and have
clothes made for yourself.
That'd cost you 100 times more
than buying stuff off a shelf.
So that's how things
turn around completely.
It's a 180-degree turnaround
in everything we do.
The moment you remove money from
the system, everything changes,
and it changes
dramatically, and it
changes for the better of
everyone in the community
because it looks after
everyone in the community.
And that is why it is a
minority-based system.
So we might as well
talk about it now,
because I brought it up.
A minority-based
system, because it's not
about what the majority wants.
It's about looking after all
the hundreds of minorities that
make up our communities,
from the people that
look after the butterflies
to the people that worry
about the bugs eating the
trees, so the trees die,
to the people that
look after the horses
or keep the water in the rivers
clean, to the carpenters,
do the dairies, to
everything that we do.
These are all people
that do things
that are minorities in our
society, that contribute
to the well being and
the abundance of everyone
in the community.
And this is why
it is so important
to look after minorities.
And there are weird
people doing weird things.
But amazingly exciting things.
And also, in a world without
money where all of this
is possible and the technology
is available to people,
the minorities will explode.
Today, we can't
do certain things
and do good for our
societies or the environment
because it's not
financially viable.
We don't have enough money.
I know that most of you
would have gone out and tried
to do something that was
good for your community,
and there's just not
enough money to do that.
So that changes completely.
So this is why I call this
a minority-driven system,
not a majority-driven system.
And sometimes people
take it out of context
and say, oh, Tellinger's
lost his mind.
I say, no.
We're just actually getting
down to the root of the problem
and making people see.
So in essence, what
it is, is it is
moving into a level
of higher conscious,
embracing unity,
and working together
in cooperation, collaboration,
and forgetting that this word
competition ever existed.
Yes, there is still competition
within the structure,
but it's called cooperative,
collaborative competition where
scientists might sort
of challenge each other.
Say, well, who's going to come
up with a better electricity
device or a better cure
for cancer quicker?
And then whoever comes
up with it quicker says,
hey, well done, buddy.
And everybody knows
that you did it,
and everyone then looks
to you as the master,
and you teach everybody else
what you have discovered so
that it benefits the community.
Today, that competition if you
discover something like that,
you get shuffled away,
they take your invention,
and they hide it, right?
So that cooperative
competition that
actually benefits community.
And I have no idea
what'll happen
to sport, competitive sport.
Because often, sport is equated
with actually preparing us
for war, especially games
like rugby where you've
got these teams, and you've got
rules, and you've got referees,
and you get penalties and
yellow cards and all this.
And so I have no idea how
this will affect sport.
But we'll see.
We'll see how it evolves.
We don't have to have the
answers for all the questions
today because the
communities will
decide what they're
going to do and what
they're not going to do.
So the moment you take
money out of the system
a miracle happens.
A world without money.
There's no crime, no envy,
no gluttony, no greed,
no hoarding, no hierarchy,
and especially no hunger.
No obstacles of any kind
to any form of progress.
We have removed all
hurdles to each one
of our individual dreams,
to the collective progress
of our towns and
communities, and that's
what happens
virtually immediately.
People say, well, what
about crimes of passion?
And there's a very simple
answer for that as well.
Crimes of passion
is something that
is going to be directly affected
by the society you live in.
Today, the relationships
between people
are dictated by the society
that we come out of.
The societies, the suburbs,
the communities, the schooling,
the upbringing forms
us as individuals.
And people go into relationships
and into marriages that are
often not perfectly matched.
And already, there's
a mismatch there.
But often, it is
the rich guy that
walks into a small village,
finds a beautiful girl
and marries her whisks
her off, and this
is her prince and
knight in shining armor,
and there's a complete
mismatch there,
until she meets somebody
else who is her match,
and then suddenly there's ego
and envy and hurt and anger.
It's a silly example,
but it's a valid one.
It happens all the time.
I mean, there are
forced marriages.
People get forced into
marriage because families
decide on things.
Well, this is obviously
going to have to change.
How this is going to
change, I can't tell you.
The communities and
societies will decide
how this is going to change.
What's going to
happen, however, is
that the way that our children
grow up into adulthood,
we're going to be creating
fall more balanced
and well adapted
individuals by the time they
reach the age of 16 already.
They'll know
exactly what they're
going to do with their lives.
They'll know what skills
and talents that have.
They'll be completely
integrated into the community.
They'll know what their
contribution to the community
already is.
Do you not think that
they'll be far better suited
to find a partner
or a matching lover
or a life partner at that stage?
You'll also understand
that that might just
be a transient phase.
It is a higher consciousness
philosophy, this.
So crimes of passion
will change dramatically.
And what about
crimes of insanity?
And that's another one
that I get often asked.
Crimes of passion and
crimes of insanity.
And the answer to that
is, well, insanity
could be classified
as a disease, right?
There's something wrong.
There's an imbalance in
your body if you go insane
and you do things based on
the chemical or physiological
imbalance.
Well, we already know that
we can cure all disease.
So if we can define crimes
of insanity as a disease,
then we'll be able to sort
that out, even genetically.
We'll be able to
sort it out in ways
that we can't imagine today.
So a lot of these things can
be answered with the answer
that money is actually
the root cause
of these crimes of passion and
crimes of insanity as well.
And if you don't have
enough money today,
it's not going to be solved.
But in the new system where
money is no hurdle to progress
or to invention or creation or
healing, everything changes.
Even these two areas that
are a little bit more
fluffy around the edges
that the communities
are going to have to
deal with themselves.
For example, how are we going
to deal with punishment,
dealing out punishment to
people in our communities
that break the law or break
whatever guidelines we've set?
I have no idea.
I don't need to answer that.
The community will decide
through the council of elders.
This is what's going to
happen, right there and then.
Every community will
have its own set of laws.
And every community might
have very different laws
to what we have today.
Or that town over there will
have far more strict guidelines
if you accidentally
kill somebody or murder
somebody on purpose,
which I think
is going to fly out the
window in any case, that kind
of behavior.
But if something
like that happens,
they might have far stricter
rules and way to deal with it
that our town does.
Who knows how this
is going to happen?
But this is all
part of the growth
and moving into this
higher consciousness,
and embracing our
own responsibility
towards the people
in our communities,
and then creating the
guidelines and the structures
within which we then co-exist,
and co-exist by choice, not
by force.
Today, we exist in the system
by force, not by choice.
No obstacles or any
hurdles to any progress.
So our plan of action.
This is where we start
getting to the exciting part.
How are we going to
get from here to there?
And that's what everybody
always wants to know.
Great.
It's a great idea.
OK, now how do we get
from here to there?
Well, it's not going
to happen overnight,
but that doesn't mean it's
going to take a long time.
It is a journey.
It's a journey of discovery,
a growth in consciousness,
a growth in unity, a
growth in trust and vision,
applying yourself to the vision,
and getting off our asses
and doing something.
So it begins, this
journey needs to begin.
The good news is that the
journey has begun already.
We're already doing it.
Many communities have
started doing amazing things,
and developing not just
self-sustaining aspects,
but an abundance aspect.
So our plan of action works
on both community level
and a political level.
And this is very important
to come to terms with.
To engage communities and
convert our communities
from the capitalist-driven
system we find ourselves
in today into communities
where everybody contributes
their God-given talents
or their acquired
skills for the greatest benefit
of everyone in the community
is something that is going to
require a transitional phase.
And the moment we start
creating abundance for ourselves
in these communities, the moment
that community projects take
off and they start
threatening the establishment,
the current establishment,
they'll send them
in with guns to shut you down.
This is really
important to realize.
So we need to create
a political platform
to help protect and enforce
the rights of these communities
to be able to continue
doing what they're
doing for themselves without
the threat of the colored
current political regime
or the armed forces
that they control from
coming in and shutting down
what we're creating in
abundance for ourselves.
It really starts with
understanding that we
can't change the large cities.
To go into the large cities
and metropolitan areas
and start this is not possible.
So let's go fish
where the fish are.
Let's create a model that
is workable and manageable,
that we know we can achieve.
And that starts with the
small towns and villages.
It's a lot easier to
reach all the people
in a small town and a small
village, share the philosophy,
share the plan of
action with them,
and then let's start working
together to implement this.
So the whole Ubuntu
Contributionism model
is based on working with
small towns and villages,
starting there, and planting
the seeds of this philosophy
and this consciousness
into those small towns
and communities.
And let those people
embrace it, and start
by creating what I call
critical community projects.
And the critical
community projects
are obviously the
things we need.
Energy, water, food, housing,
arts, recreation, health care,
and so forth.
Everything comes from there.
The foundation cornerstones
of our society, our community,
of our basic needs.
So-called Maslow's
hierarchy right except this
is not a hierarchy.
This is the foundational
cornerstones
of a united community, not
a hierarchical community.
So that's what
we've got to do, is
start creating community
projects in all these areas,
and beyond.
And this is where it becomes
really important to start
understanding the difference
between what we're promoting
here or proposing here, and what
has happened many, many times
before.
We are not proposing creating
sustainable communities.
We're talking about
creating communities
of abundance, of
infinite abundance,
and there's a huge difference.
Just the word sustainable
community smells of,
well, we're just
hanging on for life.
We're just sustaining ourselves.
[LAUGHTER]
I don't want to be in a
community that just hangs on
for life and somehow,
by hook or by crook,
sustains itself, right?
No.
We don't need to
sustain ourselves.
We live on a planet
of abundance,
and our abilities
and our talents
are of infinite abundance.
And therefore, we can create
infinite abundance, no matter
how small the community is.
We were talking about Zimbabwe
earlier before we started here.
Zimbabwe used to be the
breadbasket of Africa.
Zimbabwe used to
grow so much food,
they used to export it to the
whole of Africa and beyond.
And today, it's
completely destroyed
by the current political
regime that's taken over,
what, 35 years ago
now, or whatever it is.
And it's staggering how
the hard participation
of the people in a country,
in a part of the world that
was so fruitful, that was
so productive, how that
can be destroyed by politics.
And once again, we know by
now, that's not by accident.
It's by design.
It's not that the
politicians are
incapable of
running the country,
or they just don't know
how to deal with things.
No.
It's very specifically
by design.
Degrading the people's
lives, because we're not
supposed to be happy.
We're not supposed
to be prosperous.
We're not supposed to
have everything we need,
because then we are happy.
And if we have everything we
need, we can't be controlled.
So this is why.
It's not creating
self-sustaining communities.
We're creating
communities of abundance.
There are thousands of
sustaining or self-sustained
communities around the
world, or at least hundreds.
Hundreds.
And what effect have these
self-sustaining communities
had on the world?
Zero.
Zero effect.
They've only helped the people
inside those communities.
A self-sustained
community, in essence,
is a really bad example of
what we should be doing.
It's just a bigger
version of me, me, me.
Right?
Now it's us, us, us.
Don't climb over our walls.
You're not invited
into our community.
We're just looking
after ourselves.
Screw everybody else.
So we're not proposing
self-sustained communities
at all.
It's the antithesis of
what we're doing here.
Our community, the first
community of this kind
will have an infinitely profound
effect on everyone around them,
all the towns and
villages around them,
and the country around them,
and the neighboring countries,
and the whole knock on
quantum domino effect.
Not just a domino effect that
happens like dominoes fall.
But it'll happen quantumly.
It'll happen all over the
world at the same time,
once it happens in one place.
That's how powerful the system
is once we get it into place.
And this is why it's taken so
long to get off the ground.
It is a huge shift
in our reality,
and that's why it's so
difficult to achieve.
And people often write
to me and say, oh, I
want to come and live in
your Ubuntu community.
And, hold on.
Whoa, whoa.
There is no Ubuntu
community anywhere
in the world of this kind
that we're describing.
If it was, it would already
be affecting the world
and changing the world.
We are working on it.
We are laying the foundation,
allowing the people
to visualize it,
understand how it works,
what it is we're doing, how
we're going to implement this.
Because when we do, it's
the end of capitalism.
The moment we achieve this
in one little town or one
little village, that's it.
That's really what
we're striving for.
And that's what this
workshop is all about.
So millions of people
around the world
can take this information
in, absorb it, digest it,
internalize it, and go, OK.
I get it.
It can be done.
Let's go for it.
That's what we're doing here.
Creating, laying the foundation
for communities of abundance.
Now there are
certain things that
have happened in South Africa
as interesting examples.
First of all, South Africa went
from one of the most prosperous
countries in the
world-- the moment
the ANC government took
over, it started completely
destroying the country.
Today, everything we
had that was working
is broken down and destroyed.
Ask anyone, and they'll
tell you their own story.
And it's just spectacular.
From having five-star
sporting facilities,
recreational centers,
they're lying in ruin.
Actually physically broken down.
Not just standing
there, not working.
Physically broken down.
So many towns are
completely run down,
and the current municipalities
are just stealing the money.
Every municipality gets
money from government
to run the town with.
And they're just
stealing the money,
using it for their own personal
use, buying houses and cars,
and nothing reaches the people.
So there have been some towns
that have had enough of this.
There's no service
delivery whatsoever.
So people have pooled
together, and they've said,
we're not going to pay any
more money to the municipality.
Because whatever
money we pay over,
it just gets stolen
and misappropriated.
So let's start pooling our money
and put it into a community
trust fund, and use
the money that we
pay every month to actually
upgrade our own towns.
And there have been at least
one or two such examples
in South Africa where towns
have done this, and done
this reasonably successfully.
So I'm suggesting that
under extreme conditions,
that is an option.
So the next step by
step plan of action
is really to talk about
that kind of approach.
I'm not saying this is
the perfect approach,
but in desperate
situations, this
is what people can resort to.
And that doesn't have
to be in South Africa.
It can be in the USA, and
there are many small towns
that are equally mismanaged
here, as they are anywhere else
in the world.
There are people
who've just had enough.
So take control of your town.
Appoint a council of elders.
And this is the key thing.
The council of elders
is a key aspect
of creating these new
communities of abundance.
Because you have to have trusted
members of your community
that everybody trusts
that make the decisions
for your community, the
decisions that benefit
everyone, and not individuals.
So the council of
elders-- and we
suggest everything
that we do, we
base on sacred
geometry, obviously,
and the flow of nature.
So we suggest that as in ancient
cultures, the tribal of elders
or the tribal council, same
thing, council of elders,
the wise and respected and
trusted people in the community
that are appointed by
the community members
with open votes,
so everybody knows
who voted for that member
of the council of elders.
So if Michael, if
I vote for John,
my brother, and
everybody knows that John
is a crook and a
thief, then everyone's
going to say,
Michael, why are you
appointing your brother
who's a crook and a thief
to the council of elders?
So I've exposed my
motive, haven't I.
So it becomes a very
transparent process
of appointing respected
members of your community
that everybody trusts.
And they then make the decisions
that are best for everyone.
So appoint a council of
elders, a representative body
of the community.
Take over the
management of the town.
Simple as that.
Great a community bank
account, a trust account.
Control the collective
payment of all your accounts.
Electricity, everything.
And you might come up with
a different plan, you know?
Everybody might have to
pay a little bit more,
or something like that.
Identify critical
community projects.
Then you activate the
projects with the funds
from this community account.
And you can actually start
this process already,
just by taking control
of your own town
under the current conditions.
There's another
interesting thing
that just happened
recently in South Africa,
where in the town
of Oudtshoorn, which
became famous in the
'20s and the '30s
for the ostrich barons-- they
became some of the wealthiest
people in the world.
They supplied all
the ostrich feathers
to Hollywood and all the
shows around the world.
And they just suddenly-- nobody
knew why they were so rich.
And they left behind
these huge mansions
in the middle of
the Karoo Desert,
with these huge problems and
these ostrich baron houses,
the mansions that are there.
Anyway, the town of Oudtshoorn,
the DA, the Democratic
Alliance, which is the
opposition party in South
Africa, overthrew the
ANC, the ruling party,
through a vote of no confidence.
And I suddenly went,
oh, my goodness.
If the DA can do that, the
Ubuntu party can do that.
And I realized that
we are sitting already
on a pile of gold
in our little town.
We can actually overthrow
the current municipality
and the mayor with a
vote of no confidence.
Why?
Because more than
two years ago now,
we started the process of a
petition of putting pressure
on the municipality and asking
them to provide certain things,
to provide services to upgrade
the sporting facilities,
and a whole number of things.
And they didn't respond,
so we created a petition.
In that petition, we call on
the mayor to do several things,
and that he has to
respond, and that the mayor
and the municipality may not
stand in the way of the people
to achieve these goals.
And we list 24 community
projects, a whole variety
of them, and these
projects actually
make the foundation of the
plan of action of the community
projects.
And we say that we reserve
the right to take legal action
if the municipality and
the mayor do not respond,
or if they prevent us in any
way to achieve these goals.
We have 3,500 signed
petitions in our little town,
which has less than
3,000 registered voters.
It's just amazing.
And I just suddenly
realized that we
can overthrow the municipality
if I take this to court.
The mayor has not responded
or performed on the task
that the people handed
him in any way whatsoever.
So I'm saying that
this is a plan.
But we don't want to
pursue this plan right now.
We want to go into the elections
in 2016, and the plan of action
has changed
dramatically from what
we've learned in the political
arena in South Africa.
And this new plan applies
not just for South Africa.
It applies to the USA,
for Canada, for the UK,
for Australia, for Germany,
Austria, for Slovenia, Croatia.
Wherever we have
Ubuntu members that
want to start Ubuntu parties,
the same system applies.
No longer going for the head.
We're going for the heel.
But I'll talk about
that in much more detail
in the next episode,
because we've
come to the end of this hour.
So I just want to engage
you in a few questions
or answers or some statements.
I know, Richard,
you had something
to say about those
questions, the 13 frequently
asked questions.
>>Thank you, Michael,
for the 13 questions
and this whole process here.
From the audience feedback
during the breaks,
you're doing a wonderful
job, so thank you.
>>Oh, thank you.
>>All of those 13 and
continued on page two, three,
and four questions,
they all come from,
to use a metaphysical term--
I think it is anyway--
it's called ground of being.
In other words, where does
everything in your life
come from?
And all of this comes from
the intellectual, spiritual,
financial scarcity created
by the money system.
I mean, who's going
to shovel the crap?
Well, hold on to the
other end of the shovel
and take care of your horse.
Don't you love your horse?
I mean, you change
dirty diapers.
You love your kid.
You just going to leave
the diapers dirty?
You aren't going to do that.
There's no ground of
being caring, looking out
for one another, unity, being
part of a greater whole,
an individual within a
larger whole of individuals.
It all is borne out from the
ground of being put in place.
I mean, the one
that really got me
was, like, the scientist
creates the thing for cancer,
and the corporation comes
in and steals it away
because they don't
want it on the market.
It could also be
that the scientist
hoards the information, pulls it
away, and keeps it for himself
because he wants to publish.
Because he can't
publish-- therefore,
get the funding for his next
thing that he wants to do.
So it's all layer upon layer
upon layer of scarcity--
>>And control.
And the crimes of
passion, people
are acting out
against the people
they kill because they're being
controlled from somewhere,
and they don't want--
it's just one more brick
and one brick too many.
And so if you get that stifling
control out of the way,
you get the stifling
scarcity out
of the way, the whole
mindset changes, and the lens
is completely different.
>>Yeah.
Changes everything.
Thanks very much for sharing.
Anybody else want to
say something or raise
a comment or a question?
Go for it.
>>Hi.
I'm Jason.
In regards to the
13 questions, I
think it'll be an
interesting perspective when
we're all sitting
in a group and we
have these questions
asked, I think,
from a capitalist perspective.
It's easy to say, well,
I want 20 mansions,
I want 20 Ferraris.
But when the group of
people that's sitting here
is all in the mindset
of Contributionism,
there's not going to
be one person that
wants to step up and
say, I want 20 mentions.
I want 20 Ferraris.
I don't want to shovel the crap.
I want everybody
else to do that.
It's not going to
be the perspective
that you want to hold
yourself in as a person when
the rest of your
community is contributing
to your health and
your benefit, and just
be the one that sits back
and doesn't contribute.
I think that'll be an
interesting thing that flips,
and these questions
will start to drop away.
>>Yeah.
Jason I think what you
said there also takes us
to the realization that in
these new paradigm communities,
our children are not really
our own children anymore.
The children belong to
the whole community.
There's no fear of your children
running around and being
abducted or molested
or going missing,
or just like-- that doesn't
even enter the equation,
because it is absolute
paradise for the children.
They've got so many activities
and so many things going on,
they're not wandering around
aimlessly in the afternoon
in the streets because they've
got no money to do anything.
They can't play soccer because
they don't have a ball.
They can't play cricket
because they don't have
a bat or a field to play on.
Or they can't do anything,
so they're aimlessly
wandering and
making the best they
can do with what they've got.
And that changes completely.
Suddenly, the children's lives
and their activities changes.
And parents don't have
to worry about them.
And the best possible scenario
you can imagine is presented.
So the way we grow
up and our children
grow up in these
communities changes
dramatically,
virtually overnight.
And that's a very important
thing to remind ourselves of.
Everything changes dramatically.
Where we live, how we live,
where we choose to live,
what kind of houses we
live, what kind of cars
we drive, what kind of petrol
we use, what kind of health care
we have, where we
go to work, what
we do in all the spare time
we've got to do all the stuff.
Everything changes, what we do.
Exactly.
How we expand our consciousness.
What do people do
when they've got
so much time on their hands.
They start practicing their
natural creative ability,
giving expression to
their creative desires
and their needs.
And that leads to a rapid
rise in consciousness.
And this is actually
one of the reasons
why the elite is
making very, very sure
that we have very little
time to ourselves,
why we have to work so hard.
We've got very little
time for arts and culture
and recreation,
because that allows
people to rise in
consciousness and raise
their collective consciousness.
And this is why
it's not happening,
and people now have to have two
or three jobs just to survive.
I mean, that's insane.
So that changes instantly.
And we'll figure out
in the next episode
how easy it is to transition
from this insanity
to that insanity.
And fortunately, it does
happen in small towns.
And that's good
for the people that
like to live in
small towns, and that
were very happy to
get out of the city.
I'm one of those.
I got out the city more
than eight years ago now,
and there's just no way
I could ever go back.
And I think many people,
although they might say,
I love the city
life, most people
try to escape to the
country for the weekend.
[LAUGH]
Really?
So why are you escaping
the city to the country
if you love the
city life so much?
So many people have
cottages in the country,
and they go to their
cottage for a long weekend.
They can't wait to get to
the cottage out of the city,
and then they come rushing
back to the insanity again.
So that changes
completely as well.
Let's end this episode
here, and come back
with the exciting path forward
to our freedom, emancipation,
and a world without money
where everything is possible
and everybody lives in abundance
beyond our wildest imagination.
Thank you for being here.
[APPLAUSE]
I'm Michael Tellinger.
Thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]